README.md, before:

# Home Library Service

## Prerequisites

- Git - [Download & Install Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads).
- Node.js - [Download & Install Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) and the npm package manager.

## Downloading

```
git clone https://github.com/VictoriaAlekseeva/nodejs2024Q1-service.git
```

## Installing NPM modules

```
npm install
```

## Checking the first assignment

switch to the task branch

```
git checkout part-1
```


## Running application

```
npm start
```

After starting the app on port (4000 as default) you can open
in your browser OpenAPI documentation by typing http://localhost:4000/doc/.
For more information about OpenAPI/Swagger please visit https://swagger.io/.

## Testing

After application running open new terminal and enter:

To run all tests without authorization

```
npm run test
```

To run only one of all test suites

```
npm run test -- <path to suite>
```

To run all test with authorization

```
npm run test:auth
```

To run only specific test suite with authorization

```
npm run test:auth -- <path to suite>
```

### Auto-fix and format

```
npm run lint
```

```
npm run format
```

### Debugging in VSCode

Press <kbd>F5</kbd> to debug.

For more information, visit: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging

Commit message:

reat: add env file reader and add description in readme

README.md, after:

# Home Library Service

## Prerequisites

- Git - [Download & Install Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads).
- Node.js - [Download & Install Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) and the npm package manager.

## Downloading

```
git clone https://github.com/VictoriaAlekseeva/nodejs2024Q1-service.git
```

## Installing NPM modules

```
npm install
```

## Checking the first assignment

switch to the task branch

```
git checkout part-1
```


## Running application

Create a .env file in the project's root folder and set the port number there. The app will run on the specified port in the .env file or on port 4000 if the port is not specified.

Then run command:

```
npm start
```

After starting the app on port (4000 as default) you can open
in your browser OpenAPI documentation by typing http://localhost:4000/doc/.
For more information about OpenAPI/Swagger please visit https://swagger.io/.

## Testing

After application running open new terminal and enter:

To run all tests without authorization

```
npm run test
```

To run only one of all test suites

```
npm run test -- <path to suite>
```

To run all test with authorization

```
npm run test:auth
```

To run only specific test suite with authorization

```
npm run test:auth -- <path to suite>
```

### Auto-fix and format

```
npm run lint
```

```
npm run format
```

### Debugging in VSCode

Press <kbd>F5</kbd> to debug.

For more information, visit: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging
